Title: About

## Research

My primary research interests include electrophysiological signal acquisition
and processing, the combination of human and machine learning, and their use
for the control of computer and machine interfaces. In English: I'm fascinated
by the fact that our bodies produce electrical signals that can be detected,
understood, and in some cases, used to control things.

I'm most familiar with electromyography (EMG), which has to do with the signals
generated by skeletal muscles when they contract. It is probably most commonly
known as a method for controlling powered prostheses.

Upper limb prosthesis control is an interesting field, both because of the
methods used and the potential for breakthroughs. Current state of the art in
arm prosthesis control is mainly relevant to individuals with amputations
distal to ("below") the elbow only. If I had one piece of insight to offer
after extensive reading on the topic, it would be that robotics technology is
soon going to be offering prosthetic arms with near-human functionality while
the technology for controlling them is far behind. It's like having a modern
processor but only being able to program it in assembly: you can do it, but
nobody wants to.

I'm also interested in leveraging EMG signals of face/head/neck muscles for
computer interface control. While prosthesis control via EMG is for amputees,
this kind of research is relevant to individuals with high spinal cord injuries
(head muscles are innervated at the brain stem so they are unaffected by SCI).
The challenge in this area is estimating the user's intent from a small number
of noisy signals. I predict that the breakthroughts here will involve a deep
consideration of the processes involved in human motor skill acquisition and
development as well as their interaction with adaptive machine learning
algorithms.

Overall, I'm interested in many things. I keep on top of current goings-on by
regularly consuming RSS feeds from journals like Nature, Science,
PNAS, and a bunch more. For that, I have [Feedly](https://feedly.com) to thank.


## Running

I run around parks and occasionally the UC Davis arboretum in the mornings. I'd
consider myself a somewhat serious hobbyist runner -- at one point, I was
running 200+ km per month, but I have scaled back to take more rest days and
mix in some strength training. My favorite distance is 10 km.

- [Runkeeper](https://runkeeper.com/user/ixjlyons)
- [Smashrun](http://smashrun.com/ixjlyons)


## Linux

I am a Linux enthusiast ([Linux From Scratch](http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/)
is my idea of a fun weekend) and serve as `typescript` (secretary) for my local
LUG ([LUGOD](http://www.lugod.org/)).

My setup generally includes the Arch Linux distribution, i3 tiling window
manager, fish, and vim. You can look at my
[dotfiles](http://github.com/ixjlyons/dotfiles) if you want.


## Programming

I speak Python, C, Java, and MATLAB/Octave well, and know bits of others. My
first language was C, and I'm grateful for that. Python is now my main
language, and I'm grateful for that too.

I can write Android apps and did so as a part of human computer interface
research at
[RASCAL](https://research.engineering.ucdavis.edu/rascal/) for a few years.
I have since lost interest and fell behind the standards back around the
release of Ice Cream Sandwich.

One of these days, I'll get around to properly learning Haskell.


## Electronics

Although I'm a mechanical engineer by training, I love taking electronic
devices apart. This started as an interest in robotics, but quickly became
a more general enthusiasm for microcontrollers and such. I'm mostly familiar
with Atmel's ATmega microcontrollers, but I've also done a little with TI's
MSP430 and ARM Cortex M3/M4 (though not enough to setup a toolchain on the
spot). I can do a pretty decent job with PCB layout and have had no total
failures arrive from [OSH Park](https://oshpark.com/). At some point, I would
really like to build up some skills in designing and building guitar effects
pedals.


## Other

I enjoy craft beer. North Coast's Old Rasputin is my favorite (in the picture
above, I'm about to enjoy a flight at North Coast Brewing Co. in Fort Bragg,
CA).

I play guitar and [listen to music](http://www.last.fm/user/Vorsorken).
